now to the war in Gaza it has uh had a
devastating impact of course on the
Health Care System there here's a
breakdown of the numbers on hospitals
available for the 2 million people in
the Gaza Strip before Israel responded
to hamas's October 7th attack Gaza had
36 hospitals at the end of April 2024 25
of these were 25 of these hospitals were
out of service and only three were
partially working in addition five field
hospitals have been set up
Medics on the ground are trying to cope
as best they can as this report
shows this woman is being brought to the
European Hospital in the city of car
Yunis in southern Gaza along with others
injured in an Israeli air
strike the hospital is one of the few
still functioning in Gaza since hamas's
terrorist attack on Israel in October
last year the system has been left in
Ruins as Israel's offensive fighting
with the militants goes on effectively
there's no Health Care system in Gaza
the system has collapsed even before our
arrival we're basically trying to revive
a system that is already dead Gaza
City's main hospital before the war
alifa is now completely destroyed after
an Israeli operation in February
targeting suspected Hamas members Israel
said were using the building as a
command
center Israel also raided NASA Hospital
in k unit in February after reports that
Hamas was holding some of the hostages
there the NGO Doctors Without Borders
was recently able to start treating some
patients again at the
hospital thank God msf was able to
resume its work again in NASA hospital
and I returned for treatment and now
I've improved but I spent a period
fearing that the scenario of what
happened in alifa hospital would be
repeated but at most hospitals the
situation remains
dire after working throughout the
conflict sometimes for little or no pay
staff are
exhausted they're having to deal with
patients often without the means to
treat them properly because the
hospitals lack medicines and basic
supplies joining us now from Gaza is
Hisham Mana he's a spokesperson for the
international Committee of the Red Cross
thanks for being with us could you
please describe for us what's happening
where you are right
now thank you for having me U over the
past two weeks we have been witnessing
massive waves of displacement the U the
ownable estim is that so far over
800,000 people had to evacuate from the
Western and Central Raa city in
South uh where they have been displaced
for months um facing extremely dire
humit situations um and now they are
headed to um in and out of the city in
areas that are not equipped or do not
have the basic necessities the entire
population needs in terms of uh premotor
Food hygiene and on top of all Safety
and Security and health care after many
hospitals have come to Trel and have
been pushed out of service the entire
Health Care system now in Gaza has been
uh paralyzed for for for months uh
leaving few hospitals that are not fully
equipped in addition to a number of
field hospitals with very limited bid
capacity to respond to uh over two
million uh people uh uh people needs uh
in terms of healthare right now as our
report mentioned at least 25 hospitals
in Gaza are out of service uh you you
you you yourself just pointed out this
dire situation there what are the
options for people to receive treatment
in
Gaza well there's only one hospital that
remains capable of providing Advanced
healthcare service that's Gaza European
Hospital in P is government Southern G
where um a team of international cross
surgeons doctors have been working and
living there since last November
performing an average of 20 surgeries on
daily basis the icrc has also recently
established a field Hospital in the city
of RA uh close to the beach uh that is
able to absorb 200 patients on the daily
basis um and equipped with two uh
operation theaters however in addition
to a number of other field hospitals
this is all what the people in Gaza U
have uh or places that they can head to
receive medical treatment and I'm
talking about more surgery cases I'm not
talking about hundreds of thousands of
patients cancer patients uh patients who
rely on deadly dialysis Services um con
disease patients and persons with
disabilities who have been totally
disconnected from the entire healthare
system for months and have not been
receiving the adequate healthare they
are entitled to receive regularly as
they used to the entire Northern Gaza
STP where there's an estimate of nearly
300 4 to 400,000 people uh are lacking
Health Care the basic needs of of
healthare many patients many cases who
have been injured due to the hostilities
haven't yet received the treatment they
need or the surgeries they are expected
to receive hasham Mana spokesperson for
the international Committee of the Red
Cross thank you very much for talking
with us from Gaza